In this video, I'm going to be breaking
down the most useful plugin that
Enthropic has just released for Claude
Code, and almost nobody is talking about
it yet. It's called the Claude
Playground plugin, and what it does is
wild. So, instead of going back and
forth over text trying to describe what
you want, Claude will generate a live
interactive tool right inside of your
browser. So, any sliders, color pickers,
drawing tools, or any live previews,
it's all going to be customuilt for
whatever you're working on. You just
have to adjust it until it is right and
up to your standard. And then you can
just hit copy and paste it back into
cloud and it builds exactly what you
configured. So in this video I'm going
to be showing you exactly what this
plugin is, how to install it step by
step and also what real people are
already building with it. So let's get
into it. Now quick context for anybody
that is new. Claude code is just a tool
made by Enthropic. So the company behind
the Claude AI that lets you work with
Claude directly from your terminal or
claude editor. You just have to type
your instructions and Claude will write
code, edit your files, run any commands.
So you can think of it as an AI coding
assistant that lives right inside of
your development environment instead of
a browser chat window. It's absolutely
sweeping the world by storm. I am using
it quite literally for every single task
that I am working on inside of my
business and I know every other founder
and even builder out there today is
using it. It is the meta. Here's the key
thing is that Claude Code supports
plugins. So any add-ons that give Claude
new abilities, it doesn't have by
default. It's basically the same concept
as any browser extensions that you may
have currently. So for example, you may
install an extensions to block ads or
check your grammar. Well, a plugin is
just extending what Claude code can do.
So some plugins let cla code connects to
GitHub. Some give it access to
databases. But the playground plug-in,
this does something completely
different. And that is what this video
is going to be about. Oh, and by the
way, if you did not know me already, my
name is Nick. I run a sevenfigure AI
consulting agency just helping
businesses drive leverage and increase
their bottom line with AI and
automation. and we've helped over 50
businesses at this point completely
transforming their operations and also
helping entrepreneurs start their own AI
business and achieve financial freedom.
All right, so what exactly is the
playground plugin? Well, this playground
plugin, it's just an official add-on by
Enthropic, not some random community
tool that gives Claude a brand new
ability. So, when you actually install
it, Claude can now build you a small
interactive tools that just opens right
inside of your browser. So these tools,
they have things like sliders as I
mentioned, color pickers, they have
buttons, drawing tools, any toggles, so
whatever your specific task actually
needs, and they also let you communicate
with Claude visually instead of going
through text. Now, what that means in
practice is that normally when you work
with Claude, you have to describe with
it what you want in words and hope that
Claude interprets it correctly. Now,
it's usually pretty accurate, but it is
worth noting. But with the playground
plug-in, Claude actually flips that
around. So instead of you having to
describe, Claude is going to build you a
visual interface where you can just show
what you actually mean. So you are able
to adjust controls. You can see a live
preview update in real time. And then
the tool, it will write a precise
description of your choices in plain
English for you. So pretty
straightforward. You just copy that, you
paste it back into Claude, and Claude
builds exactly what you had configured.
So the flow is going to be Claude builds
you a tool. You interact with the tool.
The tool talks to Claude for you and
that is going to be the plug-in. That is
what it does. So you just went from
struggling to find the right words to
just clicking and adjusting it until it
looks right. Now before we go further, I
do want to clear something up because
this trips a lot of people up. So the
playground plugin, it runs inside of
Cloud Code. Now that is the
terminalbased tool for any developer or
builder. However, it does not run inside
the regular Claude chat on their native
platform on their website. And it also
does not run inside of Claude Co-work,
which is just a separate desktop app for
any non-coding tasks. If you're not
familiar with it already, and especially
if you're not, then go check out my
previous videos talking about Claude
Co-work. With that being said, Enthropic
does have a separate plug-in system for
co-work focused on business roles like
maybe sales, marketing, but that's a
different ecosystem. The playground
plugin, it lives inside of the Claude
Code marketplace. So, they have separate
install panels and just installing in
one does not make it available in the
other. So, for this video, I do have to
mention that you need Claude Code
installed. It's free to install, but you
do need either a Cloud Pro, a Max, or a
Team or Enterprise subscription to be
utilizing it. So, I'm going to walk you
guys through the full setup in just a
few minutes. Before we do that, why did
Enthropic build this? What problem does
it actually solve? So, let me show you
guys. Say you want Claude to build you a
card component for website. You're just
going to type simply, "Make me a card
with rounded corners, a subtle shadow,
and blue text." Cloud will give you
something, but the corner is maybe too
round. The shadow might be too strong.
The blue is the wrong shade. So, you
type, okay, just make it less rounded.
Make the shadow lighter, more of a navy
color. Claude will try again. It'll get
closer, but it's still not going to be
up to your standard. So, you do this
three, four, five times. And the
frustrating part within that is that you
could see exactly what you wanted this
entire time. you couldn't just translate
that picture into your head in precise
enough words. So that gap between what
you can actually visualize and what you
can type, it is a real bottleneck and
it's not just applicable to that
specific scenario. You know, I'm sure
you're already imagining other ways that
you can be utilizing this and maybe
you've even had some frustrations of
yourself. One of the engineers behind
this plugin, he actually described it
perfectly. So the biggest challenge in
AI tooling right now isn't making the
model smarter. It's actually just
increasing the communication bandwidth
between the humans and AI. So for most
tasks text it does work great but for
anything where you need to see it to the
side anything like uh designing layouts
color parameter tuning any spatial
feedback like text is squeezing a high
resolution idea through a very low
resolution channel. Now the playground
plugin it completely removes that
bottleneck entirely. So instead of you
just finding the words clog will build
you that interface where you just point
click and adjust playground it'll just
find the right words for you. Now, let
me just walk you through exactly what
happens when you use this so that it
actually sticks. So, every playground
that Claude builds, it is just a single
HTML file. So, one file, all the code is
going to live inside of it. So, there's
not going to be any external libraries,
no internet connection needed after it
loads and also no building tools you
will need to utilize. Claude, it will
just generate the files and open it in
your default browser. That is it. So
what you actually see in your browser,
it has three different sections. On one
side, it has the controls. So anything
like the sliders, the drop downs, the
color pickers, the toggle switches,
whatever makes sense for what you are
doing. Next to it, it is a live preview.
So this updates the instant that you
touch any control. So there's no
clicking apply or having to refresh
anything like that for things to update.
You just have to move a slider and the
preview changes right there in real
time. So let's say you ask Claude to
just build me a design playground for a
card component. Well, in that case,
Claude, it will generate the file and it
will open it. So on the left, you will
see the sliders for border radius. You
will see the shadow blur, the shadow
opacity, the padding, the font size, and
of course a color picker. Now on the
right, you will see a live card. So you
just drag the border radius to 12. The
corners, it'll just soften instantly.
And you can pull the shadow opacity
down. It gets subtler. Pick um navy
blue. Text will change. And this whole
time the prompt output at the bottom it
is writing a description and that's to
update the card to use a border radius
of 12 pixels with a subtle shadow and
navy blue text. And then from there you
can just hit the copy button, paste that
into Claude and Claude will build
exactly that component. First try one
round, you know, just one shot it. It's
all done. And it's worth noting that the
prompt output it is very smart. So it'll
compare what you changed against the
starting defaults and only mention the
differences. So if you had adjusted
three things out of 15, it only writes
about those three. So the output it'll
always be clean, focused, precise, and
it works even if you paste it into a
completely different clawed session
because all the context it will be baked
in. Now every [snorts] playground, it
also ships with a dark theme and
sensible defaults and three to five
named presets. So that's all
preconfigured combinations that you can
just click through. So you're never
having to start from zero. All right, so
here's the install. I'm going to give
you the exact commands, the exact order
and what to do if something does go
wrong. First, you have two options.
Either you can be using an IDE to use
claude code. So, I am using cursor as my
IDE or you can just install claude code
on your terminal directly. So, you have
those two options, cursor or
anti-gravity or wind surf. It is just
going to make your install process of
using cloud code easier even though it's
not even hard. Second, if you do already
have it installed, make sure you were
updated to the latest instance of using
cloud code. You will also need git
installed on your machine because
plugins they are distributed as git
repositories. So most developers they
already have this but if you don't
install it first and you know you could
also use your IDE to install it for you
to say hey make sure that git is already
installed if it's if you're not even
doing that then it'll realize that it's
not installed and install it for you.
Crazy how technology has taken us to
this place. So for the actual
installation part I'm just going to open
up a new project inside of my IDE. So
I'm just going to create a brand new
folder. I'm going to call this
playground testing demo. I'll create
this create this new folder. We're going
to close this out. We're going to open
up our chats and we're just going to
open up a brand new Claude Code
instance. So, we will just go click on
these three dots. Go to cloud code. If
you do not have cloud code already
installed on your IDE, you can just
navigate to your extensions. either if
you're using cursor, if you're using
wind surf, you'll you'll find your
extensions likely on the lefth hand side
or somewhere within these dropdowns. You
can see I already have cloud code
installed. You just have to click
install and you'll be able to then
prompt and start using it where you'll
just have to log into your subscription,
you know, plug into your account. Okay.
Now, for the actual installation piece,
the official Enthropic marketplace, it
is already built into cloud code. So,
there's nothing to actually add first.
You just have to simply run this command
where you'll just type out plugins and
it'll prompt this marketplace in the
plug-in section. So, you can see I
already have some installed, but we are
going to be specifically installing the
if we scroll down, we will be able to
find playground
somewhere towards the bottom. Here we
go. So, we're going to install this. I'm
going to install it in all of my
projects, but feel free to change this
to whichever one is going to be more
applicable to you. Now, we're just going
to have to restart Claud to actually
apply the plugin changes and we'll do
that right now. Now, to just verify that
actually worked, we just have to type
out /playground and we can see it right
there. Here, it's just asking us what
we'd like to do with this plugin.
Normally, we'd have to provide it with a
prompt. So, a couple things. If your
plug-in command is not recognized at all
again, restart your entire instance.
Your cloud code version may be too old.
Make sure it's updated. So, you can just
run /cloud update to try that as well.
Now, let's go ahead and start testing
this out. So, I'm going to be building
my own custom playground. You know, we
could use some of these um default
templates. You know, the design, data
query, concept map, all this stuff, but
we're going to be creating our very own,
and it's going to be custom to our
particular use case. So, what we're
going to say is use the playground skill
to build a custom automation workflow
mapper playground. So, I will paste in a
transcript from a discovery call with a
prospect. in the playground. It should
parse and map out the prospect's current
business workflows as dragable nodes on
a canvas. Visually categorize each
workflow node by the type. Let me click
each node. Let me add notes to each one.
Show the connections and the arrows
between workflow steps. Include a
sidebar. So, we're just going on
specifically what we want it to be able
to do. I give it some more
specifications like using a dark theme
even though it already should be.
[snorts] And then we're going to paste
in a discovery call transcript with a
potential client. I'm going to take this
Google doc that I have of a client or
prospect transcript and we're just going
to throw it back inside of our claude
and let's see what it is able to do for
us. Right away it'll ask for your
permission. I'm going to allow this
allow it for the concept mapped and the
design playground to just get read
access. It'll probably ask me a few more
times if I can have permission for
anything else. All right, so Claude just
finished up. It handled everything. That
took about 5ish minutes or so. So we
have the workflow mapper. This is just
inside of our browser. So we have the
toggles on the top. Service businesses,
medical practices, consulting firm. So
they were just a service business. So in
this case, we have the bottleneck
inbound call received, the manual test,
the call entered by a CSR, the handoff
point, the manual test, more handoff
points. We have the manual test down
here. High automation potential. Even if
we open it up, like you guys can see
that it is uh we have the sliders of
like the impact score. It's a little too
dark for me to actually see, but that
can easily be adjusted. So, the step
name, the review request, we have
estimate created, the bottleneck is the
estimate follow-up, the decision step,
the bottleneck. I mean, this is insane.
Now, I can take a proposal that it had
created as well. So, here we can see
automation opportunities, inbound call
received, missed call to voicemail,
estimate follow-up, manual call back,
manual job reassignment. We can even
copy the proposal and let's throw this
inside of a new doc. So I'll paste this
in. Okay. I mean we can see automation
proposal summary. This isn't adhering um
directly to my proposal skill. So we can
actually say like make sure to use our
proposal skill to actually create the
proposals after this and it'll do so as
well. But I mean for not giving it any
instructions. I mean this is really
insane. So, let's go back to our
workflow. And now what we can do is like
we can take this, we can show it to our
prospects. And I mean, showing just
this, showing a demo of like what we
built together, what we're identifying.
I mean, we can use this for our audits
and really just help seal deals with any
prospects. Also, we're able to add on to
this if we would like. So, if we want to
connect new nodes, I mean, we'll be able
to do so as well. Or if we want to add a
note specifically, whether it's a
bottleneck, a manual task, a handoff, or
a decision, we can assign that as well.
And here's the output that Claude gave
me. So, it's showing the canvas, what it
included, the notes system, and how that
works, the sidebar, the proposal output,
and the presets. This is fantastic. Now,
the Claude plugin, it comes with six
built-in templates. So, think of these
as your starter blueprints that tells
just Claude what kind of playground to
actually generate. So, you've got the
design playground for any visual
decisions like the spacing, the colors,
the topography, and the shadows. And the
data exploring for building any SQL
queries, any API calls or rejects
patterns visually. And then there is the
concept map for mapping out ideas on a
canvas with dragable nodes and also
connections. And then there's the
document critique for reviewing a
document with the approve, the reject
and the comment buttons on each
suggestion. Now the diff review is for
just reviewing any code changes with
proper green and red highlighting and
also the inline comments. And then there
is the code map for just visualizing how
a codebase is structured with the
architecture diagrams. Now the thing
with this is that those six templates
they are just starting points. So they
are not limits. They're just used to
reference and kind of um you know give
you ideas of what you can be building
upon. So it's not a limit. You can just
ask clauds to build you a completely
custom playground for almost anything
that you would like. Really there's
thousands of different use cases that
you can come up with. So if none of the
templates fit Claude, it just picks the
closest one and it will adapt it for you
automatically. And that's where things
get really interesting is because the
community has already gone way beyond
those six categories. So this plugin, it
launched less than a month ago and
people have already taken it in
directions that nobody has expected,
definitely not myself. So somebody
actually combined the playground plugin
with an AI image generation tool and
builds a visual feedback loop. So the
workflow goes where you'll just generate
an image, you will load it into a
playground, visually mark what needs to
change just by drawing on it and adding
comments and then copy the prompt and
you regenerate it. So each round the
image improves because the feedback is
spatially precise. So they're pointing
at exactly what to fix instead of trying
to describe it. And they said that this
replaced their entire visual workflow
for any blog covers and social media
graphics. Another person they built a
screenshot annotation tool. So they just
loaded a screenshot of the app's
dashboard. They drew rectangles around
the areas that needed work and typed
comments on each one. Playground
translated all of that. So the exact
pixel positions, the regions, comments
into location aware instructions for
Claw. One of my favorites. Someone used
the concept map templates to learn a new
codebase where they just mapped out all
the key concepts, marked which ones they
understood and which ones were new to
them. And the playground just generated
a learning prompt that told Claude
exactly where the knowledge gaps were.
Instead of getting a generic
explanation, they had gotten a targeted
take. And this last one, I promise this
one's going to be the most relevance to
you if you run a business. So this is
where someone just built out an
automation workflow mapper where they
would sit on a discovery call. They
would build out the client's workflow
visually in a playground and at the end
they had a prompt ready to generate a
full automation plan. Now that is hours
saved every single client engagement.
All right. Now I just want to zoom out
for a second because this is pretty easy
to dismiss as a nice developer
convenience. It is more than that. So
for the last two years every single AI
interaction it has followed the same
pattern where you just write words. AI
produces the output. You evaluate it.
You write more words. Simple as that.
The playground, it breaks that pattern.
So Claude, it produces an interface
where you make decisions through the
interface. So the interface, it'll just
write the words for you. So you're not
going to be a prompt writer anymore.
You're the decision maker. That's a
fundamentally different role. And just
think about like what this actually
means for people who are not developers.
So maybe it's you or maybe any other
prompt engineers. the person using the
playground, they do not need to know how
to write a good prompt, even though it's
not really rocket science at this point
in time. They just needs to move a
slider or click a button. The
playground, it'll handle that
translation for you. So, that
significantly lowers the barrier to
entry with working with AI dramatically.
It's not just faster for experts. It
makes AI accessible to people who would
never have used it through text alone.
Also, a few things worth knowing before
you dive in. One is that every
playground, it's just an HTML file. So
you can just ask Claude. It's to
customize it after it is generated. If
you want more controls, any different
layouts, different color scheme, you
just ask. It's not going to be locked.
Number two is that always click through
the presets first. So every single
playground, it ships with three to about
five preconfigured starting points. One
of them usually gets you to about 80% of
the way before you touch a single
individual control. Number three is that
the prompt output, it works anywhere. So
you just copy it, paste it into a
completely different Claude session,
even on a different device, and it will
carry all the context that it needs.
Four is that if you do build a custom
playground that you really love, just
ask Claude to save it as a reusable
skill. So now it'll be your own personal
template that you can use on any future
project. Number five, if you are not
sure where to start, just simply ask
Claude like, "What are 10 brilliant
playgrounds that we could build
together?" You'll get ideas tailored to
whatever you're currently working on.
and you can give it some specifics about
what you do in your day-to-days and how
you can use this to really help you.
Now, the real shift with all of this,
it's not just better prompts. It is
completely new way to actually
communicate with AI. It's quite insane,
very exciting. And instead of finding
the right words for any visual ideas,
you just let Claude build a tool where
you just show what you mean. So any
clicks, sliders, annotations, it's all
going to be translated back into precise
instructions. Now, if this was helpful,
let me know down in the comments. Please
hit the like and subscribe. And if you
do want to go deeper around AI
automation and building out tools like
this, check out our free AI newsletter
and our school community. We have got
over 17,000 people already learning and
building together. Link will be down
below in the description. Or if you're a
business owner looking to increase your
bottom line and create leverage in your
operation, then just book in a call with
our team to find out how we can help you
scale. I'll see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching.